---
title: FULL SUBJECT BASED BANDING
permalink: /hsc-community/Students/full-subject-based-banding/permalink/
description: ""
third_nav_title: Students
---
FULL SUBJECT-BASED BANDING
==========================

Purpose of Full SBB
-------------------

Full SBB is part of MOE’s ongoing efforts to nurture the joy of learning and develop multiple pathways to cater to the different strengths and interests of our students.  
  
With Full SBB implemented in HSC, the school will be better able to meet our students’ learning needs and recognise their strengths and interests. Our students will grow their confidence and develop an intrinsic motivation to discover their purpose in life and derive joy in learning.  
  
By 2024, secondary schools will have implemented the following aspects of Full SBB: Offering of Humanities subjects at a more demanding level from Secondary 2; and Mixed form classes with the provision of a common curriculum.  
  
Full SBB Pilot in (Hai Sing Catholic School) from 2023 onwards

<table class="iveo_table ive_eobj_center ives_tab_1" style="margin: auto; outline: 0px; padding: 0px; clear: both; border: 1px solid rgb(234, 234, 234); border-collapse: collapse; color: rgb(0, 0, 0); font-family: Montserrat, sans-serif; font-size: 16px; font-style: normal; font-variant-ligatures: normal; font-variant-caps: normal; font-weight: 400; letter-spacing: normal; orphans: 2; text-align: left; text-transform: none; white-space: normal; widows: 2; word-spacing: 0px; -webkit-text-stroke-width: 0px; background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255); text-decoration-thickness: initial; text-decoration-style: initial; text-decoration-color: initial; width: 1160px;"><tbody style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;"><tr style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;"><td style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 5px; text-align: left; background: rgb(255, 251, 226); color: rgb(0, 0, 0); width: 380px;">Offering of Humanities subjects at a more demanding level from Secondary 2</td><td style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 5px; text-align: left; background: rgb(255, 251, 226); color: rgb(0, 0, 0); width: 780px;">Currently, secondary school students can offer English Language, Mother Tongue Languages, Mathematics and Science at a more demanding level from the start of Secondary One based on students’ PSLE Achievement Level (AL) for each subject. Beyond the start of Secondary 1, students may also offer these subjects at a more demanding level based on their performance in secondary school. As part of the implementation of FSBB, the school will be offering students the following: Providing Secondary 2 students with the opportunity to offer Humanities subjects at a more demanding level<br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;"><br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;">Our school will also provide Secondary 2 students the opportunity to take Humanities subjects at a more demanding level, if they meet subject-specific criteria.<br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;"><br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;">This is applicable to students who are in the Secondary 2 Normal (Academic) and Normal (Technical) course from 2024.<br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;"><br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;">The criteria for taking Humanities at a more demanding level will be based on the following:&nbsp;<br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;"><ul style="margin: 0px 0px 0.5em 25px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;"><li style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;">Sec 1 Overall results and subject teacher’s feedback</li><li style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;">Students’ aptitude for and interest in these subjects at Secondary 1</li><li style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;">Teachers’ feedback on students attitude and disposition towards learning and their commitment to offer the subject at a more demanding level</li></ul></td></tr><tr style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;"><td style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 5px; text-align: left; background: rgb(255, 255, 255); color: rgb(0, 0, 0); width: 60px;">Mixed form classes at the lower secondary level with the provision of a common curriculum</td><td style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 5px; text-align: left; background: rgb(255, 255, 255); color: rgb(0, 0, 0); width: 60px;">Our school will implement mixed form classes starting from the Secondary 1 cohort of students entering our school in 2023.<br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;"><br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;">The 2023 cohort of Secondary 1 students will be grouped in mixed form classes where each form class would comprise students from different courses of study.<br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;"><br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;">Mixed form classes would present students with more opportunities to interact with other students taking different subject combinations, and with different strengths and interests. This common learning experience would allow students to build meaningful friendships, and appreciate different perspectives. It can also help reduce the inadvertent labelling associated with streaming.<br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;"><br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;">In their mixed form classes, students will take a set of subjects at a common level, amounting to about one-third of curriculum time. This would allow students in mixed form classes to spend curriculum time together in these subjects.<br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;"><br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;">These subjects are:<br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;">Art<br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;">Character and Citizenship Education<br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;">Design and Technology<br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;">Food and Consumer Education<br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;">Music<br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;">Physical Education<br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;"><br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;">Teachers will adopt a range of teaching approaches to meet the different learning needs and pace of their students in the same form class.<br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;"><br style="margin: 0px; outline: 0px; padding: 0px;">Students will be regrouped for English Language, Mother Tongue Languages, Mathematics, and Science lessons. These subjects will continue to be offered at Express Level, N(A) Level, and N(T) Level. The criteria for taking these subjects at a more demanding level from the start of Secondary One is based on students’ PSLE AL Score for each subject. Students will be grouped in different classes based on their subject level for each subject.</td></tr></tbody></table>

For more information on Full SBB, visit [www.moe.gov.sg/microsites/psle-fsbb](http://www.moe.gov.sg/microsites/psle-fsbb). For more information on how our school will be implementing Full SBB, you can contact us at [haisingcatholic@moe.edu.sg](mailto:haisingcatholic@moe.edu.sg).