---
title: FAQ
permalink: /join-hsc/faq/permalink/
description: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<h2>2023 HSC E-Open House FAQs</h2><table><tbody><tr><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>FAQ Document Directory</p></th></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>A. General Information on School Posting</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>B. General Information about Hai Sing Catholic School</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>C. Academic Related Information about Hai Sing Catholic School</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>D. CCA Matters</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>E. PDLP Matters</p></td></tr></tbody></table><h2>A. General Information on School Posting</h2><p><strong>1. How will my child be posted under the new AL system?</strong></p><p>Under the new posting system, academic merit (PSLE Score) is still the first criterion for posting. The first student considered has the best PSLE Score and will be posted to the school that is their first choice. A student’s choice order of schools will be used as one of the tie-breakers if there are two students with the same PSLE Score vying for the last place in a school.</p><p>When there are two or more students with the same PSLE Score vying for the last available place(s) in a school, will tie-breakers be applied in the following order:</p><p>First, Citizenship (Singapore Citizen has the highest priority, then Permanent Resident, and lastly International Student)</p><p>Second, school choice order (first choice over second choice, and so on)</p><p>If citizenship status and school choice order are the same, then computerised balloting will be used to determine who to be admitted.</p><p>Students will only be balloted when those vying for the last place(s) in the same school have the same PSLE Score, citizenship and choice order of schools.</p><p><strong>2. What will happen to my child if he/she is not posted to any of the chosen schools?</strong><br>You are advised to place your preferred school at a higher rank and include at least 2-3 schools where your child’s PSLE Score is better than the school’s Cut-Off-Point (COP). Also, do make use of and fill in all six school choices. This will increase your child’s chances of being posted to a school of your choice.</p><p>If your child is not placed in any of their school choices, they will be posted to the nearest school with available vacancies, based on their PSLE Scores and registered home address.</p><p><strong>3. What are the considerations for S1 posting transfer appeals and what do I need to do if I wish to put up an appeal?</strong></p><p>MOE will consider appeals for school transfer only for exceptional cases. Such transfers will only be considered for students with serious medical conditions or severe physical impairments (for example those requiring a wheelchair).</p><p>Students who wish to appeal for transfer must still complete formalities at the posted school. Please check with the posted school for the mass appeal process.</p><p>Appeal results will only be made known to applicants in early January through the posted Secondary School. Applicants should continue to attend lessons at their posted school while waiting for the results of the appeal.</p><p>If you are seeking a transfer due to reasons other than (medical conditions, or disability) you may approach the school of choice directly. Do note that your child’s PSLE score should meet the schools’ cut-off point of the posting year. Transfers will be subjected to available vacancies and meeting the school-based criteria.</p><p>For more information related to Secondary 1 posting changes, you may refer to:&nbsp;<a href="https://www.moe.gov.sg/microsites/psle-fsbb/posting-to-secondary-school/faqs.html" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">https://www.moe.gov.sg/microsites/psle-fsbb/posting-to-secondary-school/faqs.html</a></p><h2>B. General Information about Hai Sing Catholic School</h2><p><strong>4. What are the courses offered in the School?</strong></p><p>The school offers G1, G2 and G3 courses.</p><p>Our school will implement mixed form classes starting from the Secondary 1 cohort of students entering our school in 2024.</p><p>The 2024 cohort of Secondary 1 students will be grouped in mixed form classes where each form class would comprise students from different courses of study.</p><p>Mixed form classes would present students with more opportunities to interact with other students taking different subject combinations, and with different strengths and interests. This common learning experience would allow students to build meaningful friendships, and appreciate different perspectives. It can also help reduce the inadvertent labelling associated with streaming.</p><p>In their mixed form classes, students will take a set of subjects at a common level, amounting to about one-third of curriculum time. This would allow students in mixed form classes to spend curriculum time together in these subjects.</p><p>These subjects are:</p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Art</p></li><li><p>Character and Citizenship Education</p></li><li><p>Design and Technology</p></li><li><p>Food and Consumer Education</p></li><li><p>Music</p></li><li><p>Physical Education</p></li></ol><p>Teachers will adopt a range of teaching approaches to meet the different learning needs and pace of their students in the same form class.</p><p>Students will be regrouped for English Language, Mother Tongue Languages, Mathematics, and Science lessons. These subjects will continue to be offered at G3 Express Level, G2 N(A) Level, and G1 N(T) Level. The criteria for taking these subjects at a more demanding level from the start of Secondary One is based on students’ PSLE AL Score for each subject. Students will be grouped in different classes based on their subject level for each subject.</p><p><strong>5. What are the indicative PSLE score ranges of 2022 PSLE students posted to 2023 Sec 1?</strong></p><p>The following are the indicative PSLE score ranges for the different courses offered by the school:</p><table><tbody><tr><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Express (PG3)</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>N(A) (PG2)</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>N(T) (PG1)</p></th></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>8 - 18</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>21 - 24</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>25 - 28</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p><strong>6. Is the school affiliated to any Junior College?</strong></p><p>The school is affiliated to Catholic Junior College. Hence, 2 bonus points can be awarded under the Joint Admission Exercise (JAE) for eligible students who opt for Catholic Junior College as their first or second choice.</p><p><strong>7. Where can I find detailed information on transport, subjects offered, CCAs, school outcomes and special student development programmes?</strong></p><p>The information is made available via MOE SchoolFinder <a href="https://www.moe.gov.sg/schoolfinder?journey=Secondary%20school" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">https://www.moe.gov.sg/schoolfinder?journey=Secondary%20school<br></a></p><p><strong>8. As a Catholic school, is there any difference in education experience between a Catholic and a non-Catholic student?</strong></p><p>At Hai Sing, we provide a values-based education that focuses on holistic development and growth of our students so that they become versions of themselves, capable of contributing to a better society and world. While we are a Catholic school, the values we impart to our students are universal in nature such as being truthful and having compassion, etc.</p><p>As a Catholic School, we start our day with a short morning prayer every morning led by our Catholic student leaders while the rest of the non-Catholic students would respect the prayer being said by observing silence. This helps our students to calm their mind so that they are better prepared for each new school day.</p><p>The school has one chaplain and a small group of Catholic teachers who lead the Catholic Fellowship (CF) team. Monthly Masses and CF activities are organised for Catholic students to strengthen character and for faith formation.</p><p><strong>9. My child’s PSLE cut-off is below that for your school. As a Catholic family, do we get any advantage in terms of admission?</strong></p><p>The Secondary 1 Posting Exercise is based on students’ PSLE score. Appeals can only be considered if your child’s PSLE score meets the schools’ cut-off point of the posting year, subject to available vacancies and meeting MOE’s criteria.</p><h2>C. Academic Related Information about Hai Sing Catholic School</h2><p><strong>10. Does your school have Subject Based Banding (SBB)?</strong></p><p>Yes. The school will be implementing full subject-based banding in 2023. (Refer to Q5)</p><p>Currently, secondary school students can offer English Language, Mother Tongue Languages, Mathematics and Science at a more demanding level from the start of Secondary One based on students’ PSLE Achievement Level (AL) for each subject.</p><p>Beyond the start of Secondary 1, students may also offer these subjects at a more demanding level based on their performance in secondary school. As part of the implementation of FSBB, the school will be offering students the following:</p><p>Providing Secondary 2 students with the opportunity to offer Humanities subjects at a more demanding level, if they meet subject-specific requirements</p><p>This is applicable to students who are in the Secondary 2 Normal (Academic) and Normal (Technical) course from 2024.</p><p>The criteria for taking Humanities at a more demanding level will be based on the following:</p><ul data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Subject-specific academic grade requirements</p></li><li><p>Students’ aptitude for and interest in these subjects at Secondary 1</p></li><li><p>Teachers’ feedback on students attitude and disposition towards learning and their commitment to offer the subject at a more demanding level</p></li></ul><p><strong>11. Will there still be lateral transfers available under this new system?</strong></p><p>The provision for students to offer all their subjects at a more demanding level, or what is currently known as "lateral transfer", will continue to be available. Schools will guide students on their subject and subject level options based on their individual circumstances, strengths and interests in different subjects, overall ability to cope and well-being.</p><p><strong>12. Under Full SBB, will students still take GCE O- and N-Level examinations at the end of their secondary education?</strong></p><p>Under Full SBB, the GCE O- and N-Level examinations will be replaced with the new Singapore Cambridge Secondary Education Certificate (SEC) examinations. This will apply from the 2024 Secondary One cohort onwards. From 2027, the national certification will reflect the subject level at which each subject is taken.</p><p><strong>13. How are the students identified to study a subject at a higher level?</strong></p><p>MOE will identify the level at which a student offers a subject based on their PSLE AL for each subject. Students who perform well academically for their school-based assessments could be offered higher level subjects by the school at the end of Secondary 1.</p><p><strong>Higher Mother Tongue Matters</strong></p><p><strong>14. What are the criteria to take Higher Mother Tongue in Hai Sing Catholic School?</strong><br>If your child/ward has an overall PSLE score of 8 or better, or an overall PSLE score of 9 to 14 and attains AL1/AL2 in MTL or Distinction/ Merit in HMTL, your child/ward will be deemed by MOE to be eligible to take Higher Mother Tongue. He/She will receive an “Eligibility Form” from MOE upon entry to Secondary One.</p><p>Hai Sing Catholic School has the autonomy to offer Higher Chinese to students who do not meet the above criteria. Eligible students who meets the school criteria will receive a “Letter of Offer” for Higher Chinese upon entry to Secondary One.</p><p><strong>15. My child did not meet the MOE’s or School’s criteria to take Higher Mother Tongue but has great interest in the subject. Can he/she still take HMTL?</strong></p><p>Students will still have the opportunity to offer Higher Mother Tongue from Secondary Two onwards should they be assessed to be able to cope with the demands of Mother Tongue and the other subjects at a higher level.</p><p><strong>16. Where will the Higher Mother Tongue lessons be held?</strong></p><p>Eligible students reading Higher Chinese will study the subject in school during curriculum hours. Eligible students reading Higher Malay and Higher Tamil will study the subject in an external language centre outside curriculum hours. The school will advised on the centre separately</p><p><strong>17. Can my child offer both O Level Mother Tongue and Higher Mother Tongue at the same time?</strong></p><p>No. Your child will only offer Higher Mother Tongue should he/she be deemed eligible to take the subject. However, your child will have to sit for the O-Levels Mother Tongue Examination when he/she is in Secondary 3.</p><p><strong>18. What are the benefits of taking Higher Mother Tongue?</strong></p><p>Students who take Higher Mother Tongue at O-Levels and attain a grade between A1-C6 in both English and Higher Mother Tongue will be eligible for 2 Bonus Points for Junior College Admission. They will also have the option to use it to replace English as L1 for Junior College Admission.</p><p><strong>19. What are the key differences between Higher Mother Tongue Syllabus and Mother Tongue Syllabus?</strong></p><p>Higher Mother Tongue (HMT) is a more demanding subject compared to Mother Tongue (MT) as it is considered to be an L1 subject, just like English. The aim of HMT is to help students to achieve a higher level of language proficiency and cultural knowledge. The subject will require student to have a strong mastery of the language as they will be exposed to a range of texts - local texts, literary texts, news articles etc., which require a higher level of thinking and analytical skills. Students will be assessed on 3 components at the ‘O’ levels: Oral, Composition Writing and Comprehension.</p><p>For MTL, the key aim is for students to develop skills for them to be able to continue learning and appreciating the language beyond their schooling years. As such, the texts chosen are closer to the Singapore context and the skills needed will be less demanding. The students will be assessed on 4 components at ‘O’ level, Oral, Listening, Composition Writing and Comprehension.</p><p><strong>Tamil Language Matters</strong></p><p><strong>20. My child is taking Tamil Language, but the subject is not offered in Hai Sing Catholic School. Where will the Tamil Lessons be held?</strong></p><p>The Tamil centre assigned to Hai Sing Catholic School is Pasir Ris Crest Secondary School. Parents/Guardians may apply for admission to a TL Centre other than the one assigned to our school if you have valid reasons for doing so (e.g. ease of travel etc.).</p><p>You will need to register your child/ward at the TL Centres of choice between 2.30 pm and 5.30 pm from Tuesday, 3 January 2024 to Wednesday, 4 January 2024. This is to facilitate the arrangement of TL classes and timetable for the students.</p><p><strong>Non-Tamil-Indian Languages (Bengali, Hindi, Gujarati, Punjabi, Urdu) Matters</strong></p><p><strong>21. My child is taking Non-Tamil-Indian Language, but the subject is not offered in Hai Sing Catholic School. Where will my child go for the Non-Tamil-Indian Language lessons?</strong></p><p>You will need to register your child at one of the approved NTIL community groups [CG: Bangla Language and Literary Society, Bangladesh Language and Cultural Foundation, Singapore Gujarati School Limited, DAV Hindi School, The Hindi Society (Singapore), Singapore Sikh Education Foundation, Urdu Development Society (Singapore)] with an approved NTIL application letter by MOE. The class will be allocated only after you have completed the registration.</p><p><strong>22. Where can I get the NTIL application form if my child has lost the approved letter/yet to apply for it?</strong></p><p>You may email the school with your request for the NTIL application form. Once you have completed the application form, the school will submit it to MOE on your behalf. Please note that it can take a few weeks for the application to be approved.</p><p><strong>Asian Languages/Foreign Languages (French, German, Japanese, Arabic, Burmese, Thai) as Mother Tongue in Lieu Matters</strong></p><p><strong>23. My child is taking a Foreign Language as Mother Tongue in Lieu in Primary School. Does my child have to re-submit an application again in Secondary School?</strong></p><p>No. Students who have registered for the Foreign Language in Lieu previously in Primary School do not need to register again upon entry to Secondary School. The application in Primary School will remain valid when your child is in Secondary School.</p><p><strong>24. Where will the lessons for Foreign Language be conducted?</strong></p><p>Your child may either choose to take the lessons at MOE Language Centres or choose to do private lessons. The subjects available at MOE Language Centres are French, German, Japanese and Arabic. You may contact the school for an application form should you be interested in registering your child with MOE Language Centre. Please take note that there are limited vacancies in MOE Language Centre and if there are vacancies, your child will have to take a readiness test.</p><p>Students taking Burmese and Thai will have to do their own private lessons</p><p><strong>Asian Languages/ Foreign Languages (French, German, Spanish, Japanese, Arabic, Bahasa Indonesia, MSP, CSP) as a Third Language Matters</strong></p><p><strong>25. My child submitted an application to take a Third Language. How do I know if he/she is successful in his/her application?</strong></p><p>If your child is successful with the application, he/she will receive a Registration Form for Third Languages. You will need to complete and submit the registration form to MOELC or the assigned Zonal Centres to confirm that your child is taking up the offer of a place.</p><p>You may also contact the school for further enquiries.</p><h2>D. Co Curricular Activities (CCA) Matters</h2><p><strong>26. Is it compulsory for my child to take part in CCA?</strong></p><p>Yes. CCA participation is compulsory for all students in secondary schools. It is an important part of school life that inculcates good character and life skills. For a full list of our school’s CCAs, please refer to our school website.</p><p><strong>27. What are the benefits of CCA participation?</strong></p><p>The CCA Programme provides students with a platform to discover their interests and talents. As a key Student Development Experience (SDE) in school, CCA plays a pivotal role in developing students’ character and citizenship dispositions.</p><p>The CCA programme offers excellent platforms for students to learn core values, social and emotional competencies and achieve HSC’s Desired Student Outcomes. All CCAs emphasise social interaction by providing a common space for friendships and social integration amongst students of diverse backgrounds. Through CCA, students develop a sense of identity and belonging to the school.</p><p>At the end of the graduating year, students’ co-curricular attainment will be recognised according to the levels of Excellent/Good/Fair. The level of attainment will be converted to a bonus point(s) which can be used for admission to Junior Colleges/ Polytechnics/ Institutes of Technical Education (JC/Poly/ITE). For example, 2 Bonus Points for ‘Excellent’ and 1 Bonus Point for ‘Good’.</p><h2>E. Personal Learning Devices (PLD) Matters</h2><p><strong>28. When do I need to purchase the PLD for my child?</strong></p><p>The school will commence the Personalised Digital Learning Programme (PDLP) for Sec 2, 3 and 4 starting from Jan 2022. For Sec 1 students, the school will engage you on the procedure to purchase your child’s PLD on the 1 st week of school via Parents Gateway. The delivery of PLDs is expected to be towards the end of January (subjected to the availability of stock)</p><p><strong>29. How will my child learn in class with this PLD? How can I get more information regarding the PDLP?</strong></p><p>You may visit our&nbsp;<a href="https://haisingcatholic.moe.edu.sg/hsc-community/students/personalised-digital-learning-programme" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">school website</a>&nbsp;for more information and resources pertaining to PLD usage and matters. (insert PLD staging link here)</p>